Under the Health and Safety at Work Act, which of the following is a responsibility of the employer?
 Provide good information, instruction, training to enable employees to work safely

Which of the following are you NOT likely to find in the Normal Operating Plan (NOP)?
 The procedure to deal with a lost child and role of a lifeguard in this situation


Identify from the following list, what the responsibility of a lifeguard may include?
 To remain alert to observe swimmers within the whole pool environment

You are lifeguarding the pool and it exceeds the maximum number and becomes overcrowded. What action would you take?
 Immediately implement the Emergency Action Plan (EAP)

Identify from the following list, an example of an unprogrammed session?
 General swim

Which of the following best describes the term critical intervention?
 It is when a person's life is in danger and the EAP should be followed

The purpose of a risk assessment is to identify hazards. What is the definition of a hazard?
 Something with the potential to cause harm

Which of the following is an example that would be covered under the task and activity risk assessment?
 Setting up an inflatable

When carrying out your lifeguard duties, you hear three short blasts of a whistle. Identify from the following what best describes the action?
 This indicates that a lifeguard is taking emergency action

Identify a common feature associated with a leisure pool?
 Play equipment

Swimming pool casualties can be split into two groups, Identify from the following, the correct group's
 Responsive and unresponsive

Identify which of the following is an element of the Emergency Action Plan (EAP)?
 Overcrowding

The purpose of a risk assessment is to identify hazards and implement control measures. What is the definition of a control measure?
 Something that is put in place to prevent the hazard causing harm

When using chemicals, identify what a lifeguard must NEVER do?
 Mix

When supervising a swimming pool, Identify a form of communication a lifeguard is most likely to use??
 Hand/ arm signals

Select which casualty is most likely to be face down in the water, with their arms and legs hanging limply?
 Unconscious casualty

When entering the water to perform a rescue, which of the following pieces of equipment should a lifeguard enter the water with?
 Torpedo buoy

A lifeguard on duty suspects a spinal incident, identify which of the following rescue techniques would be most appropriate?
 Vice grip and trawl

Identify from the following, what type of casualty you are most likely to use a Shout and Signal rescue on?
 A responsive tired swimmer

Identify which of the following is NOT a method of extracting a casualty with a spinal injury?
 Stirrup lift

Identify from the following, how a lifeguard is most likely to extract an unconscious casualty from the pool?
 Assisted lift

A casualty is vertical in the water, bobbing up and down and taking gulps of air when their head is out of the water. Identify what type of casualty this is most likely to be?
 tired responsive swimmer

Identify from the following, the final link to the Chain of Survival?
 Post resuscitation care

Identify from the following descriptions, what best describes Asphyxia?
 It is a condition when the body is deprived of oxygen.

During the performance of CPR, you notice the casualties chest does not rise. Identify the correct action that should be taken?
 Re-check that there is adequate head tilt and chin lift

A child is visibly destressed, holding their throat, coughing and asking for help. What condition are they most likely to be suffering from?
 Choking (mild airway obstruction)

Identify from the following, what would NOT be administered on an infant choking?
 Abdominal thrusts

Identify from the following, what is NOT an aim/ priority of First Aid?
 Prioritise casualties

A casualty has severe crushing pain in their chest, pain in their left arm and have pale skin. What condition are the most likely to have?
 Heart attack

A swimmer has cut themselves and has a major bleed that is spurting. What type of bleed, it this likely to be?
 Artery

A casualty has an embedded object in their arm. Identify the best course of treatment?
 Apply a build up sterile dressings around the embedded object to apply pressure to help reduce bleeding and support the object

An exposed wound that leads down to a fracture or the ends of a broken bone that may stick out through the skin is also known as...
 Open fracture

A casualty has a suspected sprain/ strain. Identify the correct treatment?
 Rest, ice comfortable position and elevation

A casualty has splashed chemicals in their eye. Identify the correct treatment for this injury?
 Wash the eye with a continuous flow of cool water until emergency services arrive, tilting the head to ensure water runs away from the good eye

A casualty is suffering from a severe allergic reaction. Identify the correct treatment?
 Ask the casualty if they have their auto injector, the casualty should administer their own medication as prescribed, call 999/112 for emergency help


A child has burnt their arm on hot liquid. It is red, tender and starting to swell. Identify the correct treatment?
 Flood the affected area with cool running water for at least 10 minutes

